>> LILOU: Hello, my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here.
I'm in beautiful, sunny
Miami with Simran.
I'm so happy to see you
and meet you in person.
Oh my god, this is going to
be an extraordinary video.
I feel it.
I felt it this
morning, you know?
When I put my hand on my
heart, I just knew that.
I got even emotional.
I got some tears of joy.
So thank you for
flying from Texas here
to beautiful Florida.
We're on Ocean Drive.
Thank you, Simran.
>> SIMRAN SINGH: Oh, thank you
for being the original creative
rebel.
And all the signs
showed up this morning.
There were 11's and
22's everywhere.
>> LILOU: [LAUGHS] So we're
going to speak of living
an enlightened journey.
You're the author of "Your
Journey to Enlightenment,"
"Conversations
with the Universe."
You have the magazine "11:11."
You travel.
You're on the road.
You love it.
I saw your TEDx.
Wonderful.
I love this girl already.
Oh my god.
So what is this
enlightened living?
>> SINGH: You know,
everyone's wanting to go up
into the ethers or have
enlightenment handed to them
by someone else
outside of themselves.
And what I have discovered
through my life,
and I'm sure you have
discovered through diving
into your passions
and your heart,
is that enlightenment
is something
that is a self-induced process.
It's a self-illumination
process.
It is something that we have to
invite and invoke and embody.
Because we're meant
to be on planet Earth.
We're not meant to be
floating in the stars.
That is part of
who we are, but we
are meant to be here
grounded in the essence
that we are, creating from
that creative essence.
Because we are the sons
and daughters of the divine
here to express
creative capacity.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
So how would you summarize
this enlightenment?
So we're all entitled
to it, right?
>> SINGH: Yes.
>> LILOU: And then what does
it look like on a day-to-day
basis?
>> SINGH: Enlightenment to me
is our ability to understand,
first and foremost,
that we're all masters.
Every single one of us
is a master walking.
The misrepresentation
about mastery
is that a master is someone
with miracles all around them
all the time.
But that's not a master.
That would be too easy.
A master is someone that has
the obstacles in their life
but understands how to
navigate through them
and creates despite those
obstacles in their life.
That is true mastery.
And when we step into
that and we understand
that when we dive
into our shadows
and we dive into the difficulty
that shows up in life
and we merge the fear and the
love, the dark and the light
and that we allow it to be
in the now fully present with
emotion, that's where we
tap into enlightenment,
because we're understanding
that we're not just human.
This is a physical space suit.
We're not even spiritual beings
having a human experience.
I don't believe that.
Because if we were
spiritual beings having
a human experience,
then when we die,
we're just as separate
as we are now.
So there must be
something beyond that.
I believe we are experience
experiencing itself.
And enlightenment is
fully embodying and living
as experience in each and
every moment of every day.
>> LILOU: I love when you say
in the TED talk or even just
the title of your first
book, "Conversations with
the Universe," that we're
always, actually we're always,
always having a conversation
with the universe.
Tell us more.
So there are signs, huh?
There's things
that happen to us.
There's a lot that
happened to you.
I want to get into
your story after that,
because my goodness
did you ever go
through the dark
night of the soul.
>> SINGH: Well, I think that
that's why I wrote this book.
And the reason for
writing "Conversations
with the Universe" is because
I realized I didn't trust life.
I didn't trust the universe.
I didn't trust God.
I didn't trust other people.
Most of all, I
didn't trust myself.
And so I had to
build that trust.
And how that came
in is discovering
that there were signs,
symbols, and synchronicities
showing up, but not just passing
them by when they showed up,
starting to really look at them.
And the truth is each
and every one of us
gets signs all of the
time, all day long.
We are each just as special
as the other and not so.
And we have to understand
that if we just simply
look at what's going
on in our lives
from the people to the
pets to the children
to the experiences, the
obstacles, and the challenges,
they're all just
messages showing us
who we are so that we can
grow and move beyond them.
And that's how I began
the journey of discovering
the messages show up everywhere.
>> LILOU: How can we not
interpret when something bad
happens to us, like a big
challenge, how can we not say,
I'm not good enough, I'm not
worth it, here we are again,
this is not for me, this
is for those two ladies,
this is not me here?
>> SINGH: Yeah.
We're asking the
wrong questions.
Because usually when something
bad happens, Lilou, people go,
why is this happening to me?
Why did this take
place in my life?
What did I do wrong?
Instead of, where is that in me?
Because if we say, where
is that challenge in me
or where is that
terrorism in me or where
is that idol that I like
in me, then all of a sudden
we become at one with it
rather than that's that thing
I didn't want to happen and I'm
over here trying to avoid it.
Instead, we merge with it.
And when we merge with it,
we discover our commonality,
and then we find the gift
that's actually inside of it.
And it will be a
message and a gift.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
It's hard when we see anger
in another one or criticism
and to be with that negativity.
Sometimes a lot of us prefer
to escape or rage back.
>> SINGH: Well, then we're
going to stay in our victimhood.
Because the easiest
thing to do right now
is to project onto
another person.
But if we can truly look at
everything as simply a message,
then we're going to discover
that it's all actually us.
I tell people you're
not on a journey.
You are the journey.
You're not in the world.
You are every piece and part
of the world showing up.
You are experience
experiencing itself,
and everything outside of
you is you showing you you.
There really is
nothing out there.
As real as it feels and it
looks, there's nothing there.
There's only you.
And you've created
this dynamic play
to show you your full capacity,
from its dark to its light.
So when you embrace that,
that's enlightenment.
>> LILOU: Do you think we all
need to go through the dark
night of the soul like you did
or the suffering to feel this
enlightenment or to be
that connected to life?
>> SINGH: I don't think we
have to, but I think we choose
to because we love a good story.
We're each a sacred--
>> LILOU: You got a good one.
>> SINGH: I got a
really good one.
We are each a
sacred text walking.
We are no different
than any other holy book
that has been written.
We are a sacred text, in that we
each possess pearls of wisdom.
We also each possess story.
And there's some stuff
that's been made up,
because we're good at
making up some stuff,
and that's what creates
the sacred story
of the hero or the heroine.
And that's what we
really came here for.
We want to see
ourselves as ugly so
that we can discover our beauty.
We want to feel weak so
that we know our power.
We can't know something
unless we know the opposite.
>> LILOU: So we're talking
here of also being vulnerable
to what's so, what's happening,
even when we have those dark
moments or the anger comes
up, being OK with that.
Is that part of the practices?
>> SINGH: I think that's the
step into the golden age that
has not been taken before.
We've been wearing masks.
We've been trying to
run from our pain.
We've been trying to run
from the truth of all
the negativity
that we've created
or the lowness that we
have found ourselves in
and trying to cover that
up with other things.
We've been trying
to fill ourselves up
with everything outside of us
rather than diving into us.
And if instead we
allow ourselves
to understand that it's all
beautiful, that it's all here
for the taking and the
celebration, that actually is
those dark moments in
life that create us,
that's where the ember, the
fire of the light starts,
and that is where the contract
has been made so that we can
create that beautiful
sacred story
and then discover
that we are actually
the divine presence walking.
Each and every one
of us is a piece
of the divine that holds a
unique genius that is here
to be expressed and experienced.
And when we have the courage
to dive into that unique genius
and share it with the world,
like you do with all the work
that you do--
>> LILOU: Thank you.
>> SINGH: --then we
ripple out in the world,
and it affects other people.
But we have to do
it for us first,
because we're the only one here.
And only then can it ripple out.
>> LILOU: How do you
call that moment,
that turning point or
that tipping point moment?
Is there such a thing, actually?
Is it very--
>> SINGH: A lot of writers talk
about things being a tipping
point or a turning point.
To me, that's still
putting it on the outside.
I see it as a churning
point, and that
takes place on the inside.
Just like milk
can become butter,
it happens because of the
agitation and the churning that
takes place, everything
that supposedly is going on
in our world or in our lives is
actually that agitation place
so that we start to realize
I feel tight in my skin,
I do feel uncomfortable.
There's something inside
of me that's constricting,
and it's not trying
to make me smaller.
It trying to get me to realize
that there's something bigger
inside of me that will no
longer fit in the identity, ego,
and personality
that I've built up.
You can't keep
spirit in a bottle.
And that's what we each are.
And when we step into the full
essence of the spiritual play
that we are, then
all of a sudden
we dive into the unknown self
rather than the known self.
And that makes
all the difference
in the world in
terms of our bliss
and our joy and our happiness.
>> LILOU: When you say unknown,
that's really the journey that
you're on now, not really
knowing and opening up yourself
to this guidance?
>> SINGH: Yes.
When I left my 18-year
arranged marriage a year
and a half ago, I
realized who I was
had taken me as
far as I could go.
I was almost in the same
place I was seven years ago,
except seven years ago I was
on my prayer room floor broken,
wounded, crying, and
shattered, having gone
through tremendous
pain, betrayal,
and trying to make people love
me that just didn't want to.
And so at this point in my
life, I realized I've grown.
I've healed.
I've created "11:11 Magazine"
and "11:11 Talk Radio,"
I share gifts with
the world, and I'm
very content and peaceful.
But I write about the bliss.
I write about if you
do what you love,
the bliss follows,
the abundance follows,
everything in your world is
the way it's supposed to be.
And I thought, where is that?
That hasn't shown up.
I'm happy.
I'm content.
I could continue
my life this way.
But where's that bliss?
I need to know where that is.
And so my known self would
never figure that out.
I had to dive into the unknown.
But the problem is people think
the unknown is the scary place
that the boogieman lives.
They think something bad's
going to happen in that unknown.
What they don't
realize is the unknown
is our greater divine self that
rests outside of here, that
actually conspires
on our behalf.
It is all of life conspiring to
give us exactly what we want,
but we have to dive
into that unknown
to discover it for ourselves.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> SINGH: Yeah.
>> LILOU: We've been building
our life around security, huh?
>> SINGH: Exactly.
And it's hard to leave that.
I left a marriage where there
was nothing but security.
I walked away from everything.
And the reason that
the Rebel Road Tour
that I'm on right now, which is
a one-woman show that I put on
that I don't plan, that
nothing was planned,
nothing was controlled,
and I spontaneously show up
and I sing, do humor, and speak,
things I've never done before
because I've locked myself
in my home for 44 years
as a shy hermit, the
reason that's so powerful
is because I found
the fountain of youth.
>> LILOU: Well, tell us.
>> SINGH: I actually look
younger today than I have ever
looked in my entire life.
And I think it's because I've
allowed myself to dive fully
into a passion and
very OK understanding
that I have no clue
what I'm doing.
I'm not sitting here as a
teacher or a guru for anyone.
I don't want to be
a teacher or a guru.
What I am sitting
here is as an example,
and that's what the
world needs now,
people willing to be
examples of courage that
are willing to step out there
and be who they've never been
so that they inspire themselves,
so that they enlighten
themselves, so
that they discover
what that little child within
them always wanted to do.
A lot of people come
up to me and I'm
sure come up to you, Lilou,
and say, you have such courage.
You have such courage
with what you do.
But what they
don't understand is
courage is not the
opposite of fear.
Courage is the
opposite of conformity.
Too many people have conformed
to their lives, conformed
to the restrictions that life
places on them or society
tells them they have
to live as, and that's
why they're not happy.
They've settled,
and they're living
with all the different excuses
that we make up in life that we
don't even realize are the
excuses that keep us back.
>> LILOU: What was keeping you
back back then in your marriage
and in your life?
>> SINGH: I had some of the
excuses that most people have,
things like I can't do that,
I'm a single mom with two kids.
I can't do that, my
family won't understand.
Now that I've left
this marriage,
how am I going to do the money?
I've got debt.
We make up all those things.
I don't know how to speak.
I don't know how to sing.
I don't know how to do comedy.
Maybe I'm not pretty enough,
smart enough, good enough.
Maybe I'm too old.
Maybe I'm too young.
These are all the
excuses we use just
to not step fully into the
thing that we most want to do.
But we don't realize
that we're keeping
those paradigms in place
because we're not stepping out.
If we would step
out, then life as we
desire it would
actually show up.
And you're living proof of
that with what you do, yes?
>> LILOU: It seems so real,
those money problems and all
those excuses that we have.
And trusting this
invisible, intangible thing
that we can't see is a big step.
>> SINGH: It's a huge step.
But we all say I
want the miracles.
I want to believe in this.
I'm going to set my intentions.
I'm going to do all of this.
If instead you understood
you are gods walking,
you are pieces of
the divine-- and what
right do you have to hold
back the divine from fully
expressing through you?
What right do any of us have?
I think that's really
arrogant that we
think we can decide
to not fully express,
because that is what
is being asked of us.
And then we want to understand
why marriages aren't working
or why our jobs
are not fulfilling
or why the economy and
the health care system
and everything else
is breaking down.
It's because it's
trying to get you
up and out of this conformity
that you've locked yourself
into.
Because life knows
you're more, and it's
trying to get you to
see that you're more.
But until you decide
I'm willing to step
into it despite the
fear, I'm willing to step
into it despite the excuses,
I'm willing to step into it
to see if I truly can trust the
universe, you'll never know.
And what you're
going to discover
is the universe
has got your back.
Every sign and
symbol will show up
to keep guiding you on your way.
But a conversation takes two.
And what happens is
the universe sends us
the signs and the symbols,
but then we say, um,
could you send me another symbol
so I can make sure I got it?
And then we get the next
symbol, and it's like,
OK, send me one more.
I need to get one
more symbol just
to make sure I know
what you're telling me.
If instead we would stop in the
moment that we get the symbol
and close our eyes
and take a breath
and see what we're really
thinking about in that moment
and follow our heart
as opposed to our head,
step out of logicalness,
step out of practicality,
follow the heart, that
is the communication back
in conversation that lets
the universe know to send you
the next symbol, the next
sign, the next doorway,
the next opportunity.
And then it will send you those.
And then you are to take
another step, large or small,
but some step to
be a conversation.
Otherwise there's only
one person talking or one
being talking, and
that's the universe.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
That fear, though,
sometimes it's
difficult to know the difference
between the fear and the heart
talking or the
intuition and all that.
How do you know?
Because we can feel
guilty or this and that.
Some things come up.
>> SINGH: I tell people if
you truly want to know what
the truth is, every time you
have to have a discussion with
yourself or go into the
mind about something,
if you will disconnect the
brain by closing your eyes,
take a deep breath, and then
ask that question to yourself,
and the very first answer that
comes to mind is the truth
of you.
It will always happen.
It will never fail
you, because you
have an inherent
wisdom within you.
We all have that.
The problem is we're walking
around as talking heads,
and we need to drop
from here down.
If we close our eyes,
close off the brain,
and listen to the
heart and the gut,
we're going to get
every answer we want.
And then the
universe will supply
the responses to
open those doors.
And we've seen
that in our lives.
We've each leapt out
on full faith and trust
to know that I don't have
everything I need to do this,
but there's a calling inside
of me that will not stop,
and I'm going to do this anyway.
And let me let the
universe help me.
Let me let the
universe assist me.
This is a time about allowing,
not willing, not trying,
not toiling.
This is all about now allowing
the universe to fully unfold.
And I think for most of us we've
been trying to drive the car,
and we've told the
universe, source, or God
to sit in the passenger seat
and telling it where to go.
Instead, we need to move over
and let the universe drive.
>> LILOU: Even though if it
feels like we're blindfolded
and can't see anything?
>> SINGH: We're blind anyway.
We're blind anyway.
We're all blind, dumb, and deaf
as we walk through this life.
That's why we have no
idea what we're doing.
So if we're already
that, then we
can't worry about messing up.
And I think that's
the biggest thing.
People are too concerned
about making a mistake.
What if there are no mistakes?
What if there's no wrong turns?
What if you can't
possibly do it wrong
but every single step,
regardless of your choice,
actually takes you
to exactly where you
need to go for either the
next training or the purpose
that you were intended to be?
And there really is only
one purpose in life,
and that is to have
experience experience itself.
That is the only
purpose for all of us,
to be constant creative capacity
and to live as children.
We've forgotten
how children are.
And that's what your journey to
enlightenment really focuses on
is teaching us how to play
and go back into that essence
that children have, because
they're natural manifestors.
They live in the now.
They know how to do that.
And we've forgotten.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
My goodness.
Is there practical things
that we can do, for you, even,
about healing ourselves?
Is there some practice to heal?
Or is it just really just
continuing to remember this
and to trust, trust, trust?
>> SINGH: We talked about the
fountain of youth earlier.
And I really see myself, I
see you, as a creative rebel.
And that's why this is
called the Rebel Road
tour that I'm on this year.
The creative rebel
fully understands
there's nothing to save, fix,
or heal on the outside, not one
thing.
None of us are
supposed to do that.
Because it's all divine,
so it can heal itself.
There's also nothing
to save, fix,
or heal in here for any of us.
It's all divine.
It can shift at any moment.
What we are to do is to dive
into our hearts and our guts
and really tap into that
dream that we've always
wanted that we've never
allowed ourselves.
And when we do that, the
unique genius bubbles up
from each one of us,
and that inspiration
is going to solve the pains
and the ills of the world,
because it's going
to be inspired,
rather than what
we're trying to do,
which is think up the solutions.
We can't think our
way out of this,
because we thought
our way into it.
But we can inspire.
We can breathe life into
ourselves and, in turn,
bring life into the
world around us.
And that's what's going
to create the change.
>> LILOU: Tell us
about this number 11.
>> SINGH: Yes.
>> LILOU: What is
this about for you?
Because I love-- I don't
know you-- and please,
there is underneath
comments, and we
can have these conversations
about the number 11.
And this conversation
is awesome.
Thank you.
I just keep on seeing the
3/11, 9/11, 11/11 everywhere.
>> SINGH: This is how I
discovered that there were
conversations.
When I was at my
point seven years ago
where life completely shattered,
everything broke apart,
and I had my break down so
that life could break through,
the universe started
sending me 11's, 1:11's
and 11:11's 25 to
30 times a day.
I didn't know what they meant.
They just showed
up on everything,
from trains and
bulldozers and buses
to store receipts, addresses,
license plates, everything.
And by the end of the fourth
week, I got really angry,
and I said, either tell me what
you want with these numbers
or make them stop.
And that's when the first issue
of "11:11 Magazine" downloaded.
That's when I was told to
create it, to do this now.
You will heal and
others will heal.
But I also got the download that
11 is the gateway of mastery
and that there are
millions of people
around the world that see it.
And it is a symbol
that's showing up
to usher us to understand
that there's not just physical
but there's spiritual, to move
out of negative into positive,
to understand that there's much
more to this world that is real
that is actually beyond what
we see that is the illusion.
And so as I began saying my
yes to doing this magazine,
I started to realize
there are many other ways
that the universe speaks to us.
See, we don't realize that
our pets and their ailments
are actually trying to show us
where we've blocked ourselves
in our own thinking.
Our children go through
specific experiences
in their lives at the
exact age that we're
supposed to go back and look
at our own life for that very
same emotional
issue to clear it.
That's how they show up
to teach us something.
Our homes, our cars, they
are each us showing us
something when something
happens to them.
And if we start to ask
those questions that I
talk about in "Conversations
with the Universe,"
where is that in me, what
is this trying to show me
about me, what is
the gift inside of me
that is trying to be released
that has been dormant,
all of a sudden we clean and
clear this inner landscape
and shift our outer
landscape and discover
more of our divine presence.
And that's how we will move
more and more into the presence
of now where we're not
living in the future,
we're not living in the
past, we rid ourselves
of all fear and
anxiety and depression,
and we truly are
present in the moment.
And that's how we get the
world to truly show up and work
on our behalf and
things line up.
>> LILOU: So in summary, when
we see on the clock this number
11, what should we
say to ourselves?
Or what is the
opportunity right there?
>> SINGH: To stop that
second, close your eyes,
take a breath--
>> LILOU: Even if we're driving?
>> SINGH: Not if you're driving.
Just settle into your heart.
>> LILOU: It happens, no?
>> SINGH: It does.
Settle into your heart, and
look at what you're just
thinking about in that moment.
Because the universe
is trying to let
you know that thought
is an important thought,
but I want you to follow
your heart, not your head.
I'd also like to add that if
you're not seeing the 11's
there's nothing wrong with you.
You might start after
this interview--
>> LILOU: Thank you
for adding that.
>> SINGH: --because it tends
to happen that after you hear
about it, you start seeing it.
But if you're not seeing it,
you are seeing something.
And that's the key.
There's messages in
all kinds of ways,
and we all have our
own individual dialect
that we can start to learn.
But first we have
to become aware
that the universe is
actually speaking to us,
that we are each special
enough that the universe would
speak directly to
each one of us.
>> LILOU: There is
no intention to say?
Do you sometimes ask for things?
Do you just cruise?
>> SINGH: I always ask out loud.
And I tell people when I
show up in front of them
that I'm actually a
conversation with the universe
in front of you right now.
My name's Simran, and
its deepest meaning
means from the
lips of the divine
to the ears of the divine.
From the lips of the divine
Because we are each
the divine walking.
And so for something to
actually manifest or occur,
we have to speak it.
We have to put the
energy out there.
What we end up doing
is we speak our ills.
We speak our doubts.
We speak our pains.
But how many of us
speak our dreams?
>> LILOU: We curse too.
>> SINGH: Yeah.
How many of us say, I want to
be this, I want to do this,
and we speak it out loud?
Because the only way
the divine of you
can hear what you want
is if you speak it.
And it has to be heard
by you because you
are the divine walking.
And that's probably the hardest
concept for people to get
is that they are actually God.
They are actually the
universe or source.
So once you can
get to that place
where you realize it's not
just a spark in my heart,
I am actually that,
you are actually
that, every person
I meet is actually
that, then all of
a sudden we start
to realize why compassion
and empathy and oneness start
to form.
Because how can
you do that to God
when you originally would have
thought that just a person?
>> LILOU: It's so beautiful.
And as children
are passing by here
because we're really
close to the beach
and there is Ocean
Drive, they're
just smiling and so cute.
They are it, huh?
So it's going back
to this playfulness.
>> SINGH: Yes.
Yes.
In "Your Journey
to Enlightenment,"
I talk about how first
we have to really get
to radical honesty about the way
we've put ourselves in bondage
and servitude and how
we've replicated society
and become the Stepford
human, and then I
moved into the invocations
and invitations to dive
back into the child.
And the one thing
I've discovered
with my own 3-year-old
and 12-year-old,
but specifically my
3-year-old right now,
is they're so present to their
feeling and their expression.
When you see a
child, they can be
in a full-out tantrum for two
or three minutes, and then
all of a sudden an
airplane will fly by
and they will be up
cruising the grounds
like an airplane
giggling and laughing.
They don't carry
anything with them.
If they're on a
playground, they're
not sliding down the slide
fully immersed in the slide
and then see the merry-go-round
and pick up the slide
and put it on
their back and then
go play on the merry-go-round.
But that's what we do.
We have an
experience, and rather
than leaving the experience,
feeling the experience,
and moving on to the next
one, we pick it up and put it
on our backs and we carry
it to the next thing.
There are a lot of
things that children
come in teaching us
right from the beginning,
and those are the essences
that I talk about.
If we just tap into
those 12 essences,
we return to the child,
we return to play,
we return to lightening up.
We have forgotten who
we are because we've
gotten too serious.
We've gotten way too serious
about life and everything
in life.
Even our spirituality, we've
made it way too serious.
And if we can
understand that there's
a seventh sense
beyond intuition,
it is the sense
of humor, and that
is the one that leads
to enlightenment.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> SINGH: Yeah.
>> LILOU: You're
Indian originally.
>> SINGH: Yes.
>> LILOU: I'm sure some of
us and I'm thinking, yeah,
it's easy.
You were born in this.
You've got that.
But you were not always
like this, right?
You grew up in different
states in the United States--
>> SINGH: Yes.
>> LILOU: --and you
really went the other way,
like workaholic and
this and that, right?
>> SINGH: Oh, the universe
has a huge sense of humor.
It really knows how to
create a practical joke.
I was planted in the Bible Belt
South, Indian woman preaching
spirituality in the
Bible Belt South.
What's a bigger joke
than that, right?
But I did all the
things that most of us
do, people please, try to
numb out in some sort of way.
Workaholism was my
way to numb out.
And I know that there's one
commonality between all of us.
None of us want to feel pain,
and we each want to be loved.
But until we get
to the place where
we're fully able to
give love to ourselves,
we'll keep creating
the place that we
become the walking dead.
And life has to
crash at some point,
if that's the road were on.
But that too is light.
Because you can't
see light in light.
You have to have the dark.
And so when that happens,
we then start the rise.
And we rise into
love in a way where
we start to discover
how to treat ourselves,
how to carry ourselves,
how to honor ourselves.
And when that happens,
the rest of the world
starts to do the same.
>> LILOU: From the moment you
made that decision and there
was this change and the prayer
and the signs of the 11's, did
it evolve?
How did it evolve, this
journey, from really starting
to see those symbols
to where you are now?
You can tell us, if you
want, where you're at now.
It's quite an example of how to
just trust and be with what's
so and all is well, you know?
>> SINGH: Yes.
When I had my initial time
on my prayer room floor,
I realized that
something had to change.
And the common denominator in
my life where all the pain was
was me.
So I was the one
that had to shift.
And the five questions that
I stipulate in "Conversations
with the Universe" are how
I began to live my life.
Every single thing that
showed up in my world,
I just chose to
believe that's me.
That's me.
Whether it's good,
bad, or ugly, it's me.
So if it's me,
where is it in here?
And until I find how I do that
to myself or someone else,
I will not stop this
cleaning and clearing.
And over the course
of my life, I
began cleaning so much
of my interior landscape
that doors just
opened automatically,
things happened
automatically, because that's
the magical way of the universe.
The more we align to our truth,
the more truth gives us back.
>> LILOU: When you say
clearing, you clear it?
You speak out?
>> SINGH: Yes, feeling
it, mostly feeling it.
For me, I was so numbed out
I wouldn't feel anything.
I had not ever cried in my
life until I was 38 years old.
That was the first
time I ever cried.
And so I had to get in touch
with what emotion even was,
and it took time.
And I allowed myself that
time to dive into the shadows,
to dive into the pain, to
really sit and immerse in that.
Because children understand
that that's beautiful too.
They full-out experience
it, but we don't.
So I decided I'm going to
full-out experience all of it.
Because the only way it can get
out of you is to experience it.
Otherwise we suppress it
and push it back down.
And then it stays with us,
recreating reincarnations
of the same experiences
again and again and again.
And so that's what I did.
And when I finally got the
courage to leave my marriage
and this Rebel Road idea
came, the spontaneity
of getting on stage not
having any clue what I'm doing
and not being perfect-- the
very first show that I went to
in DC, I forgot the
verses of two songs.
And I just stood there
and let the music play
and told the audience
I've just forgotten
the verses of two songs, because
that was all I knew how to do.
It was me being intimate and
vulnerable and authentic.
And at the end of
that show, five people
came up and said the
same thing to me.
But one in particular is the
one that I remember the most.
She was an opera
singer, and she had
been invited to tour the
world four times by four
different companies,
and she turned them
down each and every time.
And she said, I want to thank
you for what you're doing.
It has inspired me greatly,
because my greatest fear
was that I would
forget the words.
And you've just shown
me how to do that.
I'm going to go be an opera
singer and tour the world.
And I have had more stories
of different situations
because I was willing to be
real and willing to show people
we're not supposed
to have it perfect.
I didn't need to
know how to sing,
because by the end
of 66 shows, I'd
figure out how to sing, right?
It's experience
experiencing itself.
So get off this perfection
bandwagon or thinking
that you have to get it
right before you start.
I believe in quality.
But right now we
are in an age that
is more about experience
and expression.
Before that, the age
was not about that.
It was about
accomplishment, attainment.
We are now about experience.
And experience has no agenda.
It has no outcome.
It's not about filling
up a bunch of seats,
selling a bunch of products,
or filling up a bank account.
Experience is about filling you
up, standing in your own seat,
and finding the abundance and
wealth that you possess inside.
That's where we are now.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
You have to tell us about the RV
story and the graphic designer
before that--
>> SINGH: Yes.
>> LILOU: --and also that you
decided to turn off the prices
on your website.
Those are really big
bold stories, three
beautiful examples, I think,
and you probably have some more,
I'm sure.
>> SINGH: I have six months'
worth of full-out sign symbol
stories that I've been
creating a show with.
And I have received
guidance lately
to change how I do things.
I've always given
"11:11 Magazine" away
and the radio show
away, but now I'm
being guided to give it all
away in a way that people choose
the value of it,
rather than me saying,
this is how much
it's going to be.
It's to help shift this
economic paradigm that we're in,
to start to say there are
other forms of exchange
and there are new ways
for us to do things,
but we each have
to take the step
of being that example for
the world to really change.
As I began this Rebel Road
tour, I got the vision
that everything was
going to show up,
the RV, that I would be
invited to 66 cities,
that I was not to plan it, to
control it, to do anything.
And three weeks before I
was to leave in September,
an RV appeared.
One week before I was
supposed to leave we
already had 42 places
that had invited me.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
And I just want to say
this is with two children.
>> SINGH: I have two children,
a 3-year-old and a 12-year-old.
>> LILOU: Single mom.
>> SINGH: Yes.
We have been in a
little Petri dish
in this 1991 refurbished RV
that is 31 foot by 7 foot.
There's been five of
us living in there.
And talk about a Petri dish
to discover relationship
and to discover how
we interact truly.
But isn't that what life is?
We're not supposed
to run from that.
We're supposed to dive
into it, because that's
where you become
self-realized, where
you see when your
shadows are triggered.
And it's amazing what you
discover about yourself
when you're in small quarters.
And it's amazing to discover
how little we really need,
how little.
We live in such excess,
and we don't need to.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> SINGH: And so there've
been things like that.
But I will share one
really profound story,
just to show people--
>> LILOU: As we have the
Miami music in the background.
And they're dancing.
I wish I could turn
the camera around.
>> SINGH: Because
that's who we are,
signs and symbols showing
up right now, right?
But as I was on the road, when
we just left South Carolina,
we got within two hours, and
I had to fill up with gas.
And the RV wouldn't
crank back up,
and so I had to be jump-started.
And we got to the next
campground to spend the night.
The next morning
we were to leave,
and the RV wouldn't start again.
So we had to go to a
station to get it worked on.
While I was there, the
gentleman there in Fayetteville,
North Carolina, the
largest murder capital
in the United States
right now, wanted
to know what the
word rebel meant.
A lot of people
question that word.
And so I explained
to them about there
being no fight outside,
no fight inside.
This is about peace,
love, and oneness.
And they fixed my
RV and found out
it was a piece
called the solenoid.
The solenoid is a communication
box between the ignition
and the engine of
a vehicle, so it
tells the engine when
you've inserted the key
and you've cranked it up.
I was expecting a
$600 or $700 bill.
It was not exactly how I
wanted to start this tour,
but it was what it was.
And so when they finished,
the mechanic came to the door
and he handed me $200
and a business card.
And he said, the person
you were speaking
to about the word rebel was the
owner of this establishment.
He's completely inspired
by what you're doing.
He's waiving all
charges for fixing this.
He wants to donate
$200 to your cause,
and here's his business card.
And I looked at
the business card--
now Lilou, if you
had seen these men,
these were burly man with
grizzly beards, sweaty,
with oil on them.
His name was Jim
Souls, S-O-U-L-S,
and there was a pair of angel
wings on the top of his card.
Look at how the
universe provides.
So we left there and
went to DC, where
the first show was going to be.
And I got to the campground,
went inside to the office,
came back out, and
the RV wouldn't crank.
So I had to get it
jump-started again.
We got to our parking
place, I turned
it off, tried to
turn it back on.
It wouldn't crank.
So I said, universe, what
is you're trying to tell me?
I know I'm supposed to create
every show spontaneously.
What's the message you're
trying to get me to understand?
So I sat down, I took a breath,
and the first word that came in
was solenoid.
So I sat there and I said,
solenoid, solenoid, solenoid,
solenoid, silly
noise, silly noise.
Silly noise?
Is it the silly noise
that's all around us
and the silly noise
that's inside of us that
keeps us stopping and starting
and stopping and starting
so we don't live our dreams?
If that's the
message that you're
trying to get across to the
audience, please let the RV
crank.
And I got in the
driver's seat, and the RV
cranked and cranked
every show, every step
of the way for the first leg.
Now a lot of people would
say, OK, that's a coincidence.
It just was a loose wire.
Something kind of
happened there.
>> LILOU: Oh, you've got
many of those, though.
>> SINGH: But when we
left on the second leg,
I spoke to you earlier about a
personal issue that I'm going
through, and I happened to
stop by my parents' home,
and they said something to me
that kind of got me a little
jittery inside.
And I'm the kind of person
that 99% of the time I'm
in my happy place.
But all the way back to
Charleston to pack up the RV,
I was just feeling really
uncomfortable and jittery
and the stories were
going in my mind.
And I get there, we pack up
the RV, get ready to leave,
the RV won't crank.
And so I try 12 more
times, not even a click.
So I get in the car
and I tell the kids
and I tell my assistant, Tuck
we were going to go to a hotel.
I'll get this fixed
tomorrow, and we'll leave.
I'm about to put the
key in the ignition,
and I go, silly noise.
Oh my gosh, Tuck,
it's the silly noise.
I need to go try the RV again.
And I got in the RV,
and I said I'm not
buying into those things
I heard this morning.
I'm getting rid of
all that silly noise
because I know the
truth of this situation.
I put the key in the
ignition, the RV cranked,
and it has cranked ever since.
What if we are at that connected
to everything in our reality
and we don't even realize it?
What if everything
is simply there
to play with us, to be
messages and communications
and work on our behalf?
It's amazing.
When I was in retail-- I
was in retail for 30 years--
and there was this woman that
would walk through the door.
She had the most gorgeous
curly hair I'd ever seen.
The sun would shine.
It would go right through it.
The angels would
sing, [SINGING] ahhh.
And I would just fall in
love with this curly hair.
And I had very,
very straight hair.
And there was one day
that she walked in
and the light hit it just right.
And I said, I will
to have curly hair.
The next morning I
woke up with this.
>> LILOU: Are you kidding me?
>> SINGH: What if we can change
everything and we just don't--
>> LILOU: The women who
are listening, oh my god.
>> SINGH: But that
is what has happened.
And that's what I
want people to get.
You are masters.
You are gods walking.
The sacred texts
all tell you this,
but we just need to know it and
believe it and allow ourselves
this playground.
This is not an earth school.
It's not obstacles
and challenges.
It's a playground.
And we are meant to dive
into the dark night.
And I wrote a song that's
absolutely beautiful
that speaks about
that dark night.
>> LILOU: Are you
going to sing for us?
>> SINGH: I'd be happy
to if you want me to.
>> LILOU: Yay.
>> SINGH: Would you like me to?
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> SINGH: OK.
I have to do this a cappella.
We'll see how this works.
[SINGING] Contracts come, lives
intertwine, anger, sadness,
grief, and resentment.
A soul curriculum we must
all learn in our own time.
Sing your song out loud
while creating your story.
A spiritual journey,
a human experience.
There are no mistakes, no
mistakes in all this glory,
in all this glory.
All seems lost when
you look in the mirror.
Hope is gone.
Let yourself fall
to hear the call.
This is the beginning
where we learn to belong.
A life wrought with separation?
No, it's preparation,
leading you,
guiding you to who you
are, to who you really are.
In a moment you'll awaken
to your soul's true call.
Dark night of the soul,
it's a place where we grow.
Dark nights, dark nights,
dark nights to behold.
It's the soul's
path to the light.
In the darkest night
find your gold.
Find your gold.
Victim, villain, saint, then
sinner, the pebbles and rocks,
the boulders do rise.
In the moment of your surrender,
you shall give in to surprise,
and then you'll have the
chance to discover the winner.
A hero's journey,
learn to let go.
Let it go to find
you are the infinite.
It's just a show.
Fall to the ground.
Cry your tears.
Say your prayer.
Dive into your fears.
It's the road of every human
soul, the path of all time,
to begin this journey believing
we are deaf, dumb, and blind.
In the land of
opposites, burning
as an ember, you will
learn to shine where you'll
find what is mine is yours,
what is yours is mine.
Dark night of the soul,
it's a place where we grow.
Dark nights, dark nights,
dark nights to behold.
It's the soul's
path to the light.
In the darkest night,
find your gold.
Find your gold.
Now that was six voice lessons.
I didn't know how to sing.
I've lost my voice three times.
And each time I've lost my
voice, it's gotten stronger.
And over the course--
I've now done 48 shows,
and my voice has gotten
stronger and stronger.
The lesson is here is we
don't have to be perfect.
We don't have to get
it right, that I've
gained far more through the
experience of discovering
my courage, my confidence,
my ability to have gifts
that I didn't even
know that I had.
And in doing that,
in being the example
of that to other
people, there are
fires inside of
people that are being
lit up all over this country.
And that's what we're here to
do is just do it for ourselves.
My nickname is Simi.
Simi, see-me.
I had to do this for the little
girl that has hidden away
for 44 years behind four walls.
I had to get out on stage
and tour the country for me
so that I would see me.
And in doing that,
it is allowing others
to see that they
can see themselves.
And that's the truth
of why we're here,
to discover who we are,
to love ourselves enough,
and to be willing
to stand in that
so that that world that
appears so real outside also
can ripple out and do the same.
>> LILOU: Mmm.
[SIGHS] This felt really good.
Thank you so much, Simran,
for this beautiful interview,
for pouring out your heart with
beautiful emotions and love.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
>> SINGH: Oh, thank you
for the opportunity.
And I just think that
what you've been doing
is amazing, just the example
that you're setting for people
and allowing people to
understand it just is the yes.
It's just the yes that we need
to do, and we need to all dive
into our passions.
And then you can
live their lives
that we're living, full of
bliss and happiness and joy.
The things that I really do
write about actually do happen.
>> LILOU: I'm inspired.
Thank you.
Big, big kisses to all of you
beautiful gods and goddesses.
>> SINGH: That's right.
We are in love all of the time.
We are with love
all of the time.
We are of love all of the time.
We're just here to be as love
in every step that we take.
Yeah.
>> LILOU: Thank you.
>> SINGH: Thank you.
>> LILOU: Big, big kisses.
Much love.
Bye bye.
>> SINGH: Bye.